(dp1
S'Chople Berry'
p2
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Fighting-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Fighting-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p3
sS'Magnet'
p4
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Electric-type attacks by 20%."
p5
sS'Leppa Berry'
p6
S'Restores 10 PP to a move that has run out of PP. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Fighting-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p7
sS'Passho Berry'
p8
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Water-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Water-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p9
sS'Claw Fossil'
p10
S'The Claw Fossil can be revived at the Nacrene Museum to make a Level 20 Anorith.'
p11
sS'Cheri Berry'
p12
S'If held by a Pokemon, will automatically cure the paralysis status condition when inflicted on the holder. Consumed after use. Can also be used forcibly by the trainer in-game. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Fire-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p13
sS'Jaboca Berry'
p14
S'If the holder is hit by a physical damaging attack, then it will consume the Jaboca Berry, and the attacker will take 12.5% of their max HP as damage. Natural Gift becomes an 80 Base Power Dragon-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p15
sS'Destiny Knot'
p16
S'If the user becomes infatuated, the effect will transfer over to the enemy, making them both infatuated.'
p17
sS'Ganlon Berry'
p18
S"The Ganlon Berry raises the user's Defense by 1 stage once the user is brought down to 1/4 or lower of its HP. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes an 80 Base Power Ice-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use."
p19
sS'Meadow Plate'
p20
S"A hold item that increases the Base Power of all Grass-type moves by 20%. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Grass."
p21
sS'Choice Specs'
p22
S'The user gains a 50% increase to Special Attack, but can only use the first move selected until it switches out or has its Choice Specs removed. This boost does not count as a stat change. If this item is replaced with another Choice item, such as by Trick or Switcheroo, then the user will not be locked into their original choice. If the holder is locked into a non-attacking move and is Taunted, they will use Struggle. If the holder is out of PP for the attack they are locked into, they will use Struggle, but if the PP for that move is restored by an Elixir or Leppa Berry, they can select a new attack. If a Pokemon obtains a Choice item after using an attack, they will be locked into that attack. If Magic Room is used while a Choice-locked Pokemon is on the field, then the Pokemon can switch attacks, but once Magic Room ceases to take effect, they are again locked on the move they were originally locked on before Magic Room was used.'
p23
sS'Metal Coat'
p24
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Steel-type attacks by 20%. If Onix is traded while holding this item, it will evolve into Steelix. If Scyther is traded while holding this item, it will evolve into Scizor."
p25
sS'Occa Berry'
p26
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Fire-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Fire-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p27
sS'Lax Incense'
p28
S'Raises the evasion of the holder by 5%. If Wobbuffet breeds while holding Lax Incense, a Wynaut Egg will be produced as opposed to a Wobbuffet Egg.'
p29
sS'Rock Gem'
p30
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Rock-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p31
sS'SilverPowder'
p32
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Bug-type attacks by 20%."
p33
sS'Rocky Helmet'
p34
S'The holder will deal damage to the opponent equal to 1/6 of their maximum HP if the holder is hit by a contact move. Stacks with Iron Barbs or Rough Skin. If the holder is hit multiple times by the same move, for example by Tail Slap, then the holder will deal damage on every hit. If the opponent uses any of Bug Bite, Circle Throw, Dragon Tail, Pluck, Rapid Spin, SmellingSalt, or Wake-Up Slap, and then immediately faints due to the damage from Rocky Helmet, then the effect of that move will not take place. This is not the case for moves that would inflict status, flinch, or drain HP. The damage dealt is not blocked by Substitute.'
p35
sS'Wide Lens'
p36
S"Boosts the holder's accuracy by 10%."
p37
sS'Chesto Berry'
p38
S'If held by a Pokemon, will automatically cure the sleep status condition when inflicted on the holder. Consumed after use. Can also be used forcibly by the trainer in-game. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Water-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p39
sS'Lum Berry'
p40
S'When the holder is afflicted with poison, Toxic poison, paralysis, burn, sleep, confusion, or is frozen while holding this item, they will immediately consume their Lum Berry to cure themselves of that status condition. Natural Gift becomes an 60 Base Power Flying-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p41
sS'Sitrus Berry'
p42
S'Restores the HP of the holder by 25% of its max HP when at 50% HP or less. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Psychic-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p43
sS'Fire Gem'
p44
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Fire-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p45
sS'BrightPowder'
p46
S'Increases the evasion of the holder by 10%.'
p47
sS'Razor Fang'
p48
S'If Gligar is leveled up at night while holding this item, it will evolve into Gliscor. All moves that actively deal damage and do not already have a chance to flinch will gain a 10% chance of flinching the opponent. (This chance doubles to 20% if the holder has Serene Grace.) This effect does not stack with Stench, and is not affected by Sheer Force.'
p49
sS'Sky Plate'
p50
S"A hold item that increases the Base Power of all Flying-type moves by 20%. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Flying."
p51
sS'Zoom Lens'
p52
S"If the holder moves after the target in the same turn, this item boosts the holder's accuracy by 20%."
p53
sS'Spooky Plate'
p54
S"A hold item that increases the Base Power of all Ghost-type moves by 20%. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Ghost."
p55
sS'Iapapa Berry'
p56
S'Restores the HP of the holder by 1/8 of its maximum HP when at 50% HP or less. Consumed after use. If the holder has a Gentle, Hasty, Lonely, or Mild nature, it will also confuse the holder upon activation. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Dark-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p57
sS'Black Belt'
p58
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Fighting-type attacks by 20%."
p59
sS'Berry Juice'
p60
S'Berry Juice restores the HP of the holder by 20 hit points when the holder is at 50% HP or less.'
p61
sS'Rindo Berry'
p62
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Grass-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. If the holder uses the move Natural Gift, this Berry will provide a one-time 60 Base Power Grass-type attack.'
p63
sS'Stone Plate'
p64
S"A hold item that increases the Base Power of all Rock-type moves by 20%. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Rock."
p65
sS'Mental Herb'
p66
S'When held by a Pokemon, Mental Herb will cure the effects of infatuation, Taunt, Encore, Torment, Disable, and Cursed Body if the holder is afflicted by any of these. Consumed after use.'
p67
sS'Choice Band'
p68
S'The user gains a 50% increase to Attack, but can only use the first move selected until it switches out or has its Choice Band removed. This boost does not count as a stat change. If this item is replaced with another Choice item, such as by Trick or Switcheroo, then the user will not be locked into their original choice. If the holder is locked into a non-attacking move and is Taunted, they will use Struggle. If the holder is runs out of PP for the attack they are locked into, they will use Struggle, but if the PP for that move is restored by an Elixir or Leppa Berry, they can select a new attack. If a Pokemon obtains a Choice item after using an attack, they will be locked into that attack. If Magic Room is used while a Choice-locked Pokemon is on the field, then the Pokemon can switch attacks, but once Magic Room ceases to take effect, they are again locked on the move they were originally locked in on before Magic Room was used.'
p69
sS'Life Orb'
p70
S"Whenever a Pokemon holding a Life Orb successfully uses a damaging attack, that attack deals 1.3x its normal damage, rounded down, and the attacker loses 1/10 of their maximum HP, even if the opponent is behind a Substitute. Damage rounds down to the minimum possible value for 10%\xe2\x80\x94thus, if the Pokemon has a HP stat ending in any number indivisible by 10, it can use Life Orb 11 times without dying. If a Pokemon has a HP stat of 19, then Life Orb will deal 1 HP recoil per attack, so the holder can attack 19 times at most. If the attack fails, adjusts HP instead of dealing damage, or if the holder's ability is Magic Guard, or if the holder's ability is Sheer Force and the attack was boosted by Sheer Force, then the holder takes no damage from Life Orb. For multi-hit attacks, all hits are treated as a single attack for the purposes of Life Orb recoil. If the Life Orb holder uses Circle Throw or Dragon Tail and then faints from the recoil, the target is not forced out. If a Pokemon steals Life Orb by using Thief or Covet, then that Pokemon takes recoil damage afterwards."
p71
sS'Babiri Berry'
p72
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Steel-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Steel-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p73
sS'Damp Rock'
p74
S'Any Pokemon that uses Rain Dance while holding a Damp Rock will have its duration boosted to eight turns instead of the regular five.'
p75
sS'Enigma Berry'
p76
S"Restores 25% of the holder's max HP when the holder is hit by a super effective attack. Consumed after use."
p77
sS'Griseous Orb'
p78
S"May only be held by Giratina. When held by Giratina, transforms Giratina into Giratina-O. Raises the power of Giratina-O's Dragon- and Ghost-type moves by 4915/4096 (approximately 1.2). Griseous Orb cannot be removed through the use of Trick, Switcheroo, Thief, Covet, or Knock Off."
p79
sS'Oran Berry'
p80
S'Restores the HP of the holder by 10 HP when at 50% HP or less. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Poison-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p81
sS'Quick Powder'
p82
S"Doubles Ditto's Speed stat. If Ditto transforms into another Pokemon, the boosts are lost."
p83
sS'Shuca Berry'
p84
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Ground-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. If the holder uses the move Natural Gift, this Berry will provide a one-time 60 Base Power Ground-type attack.'
p85
sS'Grip Claw'
p86
S'A hold item that causes partial trapping moves, namely Bind, Clamp, Fire Spin, Magma Storm, Sand Tomb, Whirlpool, and Wrap, to always trap and damage the opponent for the maximum of 7 turns.'
p87
sS'Rock Incense'
p88
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Rock-type attacks by 20%. If Sudowoodo breeds while holding Rock Incense, a Bonsly Egg will be produced as opposed to a Sudowoodo Egg."
p89
sS'DeepSeaScale'
p90
S'If held by Clamperl, its Special Defense stat is doubled in battle. If Clamperl is traded while holding this item, it will evolve into Gorebyss.'
p91
sS'Red Card'
p92
S'The opponent is forced out immediately if it attacks the holder. The holder of this item will still take damage from the attack. One-time use.'
p93
sS'Custap Berry'
p94
S"If the holder has 25% HP or less and uses a move, then it will consume the Custap Berry, and the move used will move before all other moves in the same priority bracket for that turn only. For example, if the holder were to use Spikes and the opponent to use Taunt, then if the Berry were to activate, Spikes would go before Taunt irrespective of the combatants' Speed stats. However, if the opponent were to use Bullet Punch or another elevated priority attack, then Bullet Punch would go first. Similarly, a Pokemon with Prankster will move before a Pokemon using Custap Berry when using a non-attacking move. Using Pursuit against a Pokemon that is switching out does not activate Custap Berry. Natural Gift becomes an 80 Base Power Ghost-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use."
p95
sS'Icicle Plate'
p96
S"A hold item that increases the Base Power of all Ice-type moves by 20%. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Ice."
p97
sS'Ice Gem'
p98
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Ice-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p99
sS'Burn Drive'
p100
S'This item causes the move Techno Blast to become Fire-type. It does not change it in any other way, however, and has no effect on a Pokemon without this move.'
p101
sS'Zap Plate'
p102
S"A hold item that increases the Base Power of all Electric-type moves by 20%. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Electric."
p103
sS'Flying Gem'
p104
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Flying-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p105
sS'Psychic Gem'
p106
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Psychic-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p107
sS'Charcoal'
p108
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Fire-type attacks by 20%."
p109
sS'Leftovers'
p110
S'The holder recovers 1/16 (6.25%) of their maximum HP at the end of each turn, rounded down. This healing occurs after damage from sandstorm or hail, but before damage from poison, burn, Nightmare, or Leech Seed.'
p111
sS'Air Balloon'
p112
S"The Air Balloon gives the holder an immunity to all Ground-type moves. It pops once the user is hit by an attacking move. Indirect damage will not pop the Air Balloon, and neither will Ground-type moves. The user is also not affected by Spikes or Toxic Spikes. The Air Balloon's effect is negated when Gravity is in effect."
p113
sS'BlackGlasses'
p114
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Dark-type attacks by 20%."
p115
sS'Helix Fossil'
p116
S'The Helix Fossil can be revived at the Nacrene Museum to make a Level 20 Omanyte.'
p117
sS'Skull Fossil'
p118
S'The Skull Fossil can be revived at the Nacrene Museum to make a Level 20 Cranidos.'
p119
sS'Mystic Water'
p120
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Water-type attacks by 20%."
p121
sS'Liechi Berry'
p122
S"If the holder's HP hits or falls below 25%, this Berry will raise the holder's Attack by one stage. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes an 80 Base Power Grass-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use."
p123
sS'Shell Bell'
p124
S'Whenever the holder attacks, it is healed by 1/8 of the damage dealt by the attack.'
p125
sS'Splash Plate'
p126
S"A hold item that increases the Base Power of all Water-type moves by 20%. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Water."
p127
sS'Sea Incense'
p128
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Water-type attacks by 20%. If Marill or Azumarill breeds while holding Sea Incense, an Azurill Egg will be produced as opposed to a Marill Egg."
p129
sS'Kasib Berry'
p130
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Ghost-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. If the holder uses the move Natural Gift, this Berry will provide a one-time 60 Base Power Ghost-type attack.'
p131
sS'NeverMeltIce'
p132
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Ice-type attacks by 20%."
p133
sS'Old Amber'
p134
S'The Old Amber can be revived at the Nacrene Museum to make a Level 20 Aerodactyl.'
p135
sS'Float Stone'
p136
S"This item, when attached to a Pok\xc3\xa9mon, halves the Pok\xc3\xa9mon's weight."
p137
sS'Electirizer'
p138
S'If Electabuzz is traded while holding this item, it will evolve into Electivire.'
p139
sS'Rowap Berry'
p140
S'If the holder takes damage from a special attack, then it will consume the Rowap Berry, and the attacker will take damage equal to 12.5% of its maximum health. Natural Gift becomes an 80 Base Power Dark-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p141
sS'Petaya Berry'
p142
S"If the holder's HP hits or falls below 25%, this Berry will raise the holder's Special Attack by one stage. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 80 Base Power Poison-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use."
p143
sS'Fighting Gem'
p144
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Fighting-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p145
sS'Rose Incense'
p146
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Grass-type attacks by 20%. If Roselia or Roserade breeds while holding Rose Incense, a Budew Egg will be produced as opposed to a Roselia Egg."
p147
sS'Steel Gem'
p148
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Steel-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p149
sS'Tanga Berry'
p150
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Bug-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Bug-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p151
sS'Toxic Orb'
p152
S'Inflicts the holder with the Toxic poison status at the end of the first turn in which the holder was sent out. The poison status occurs after the holder would take poison damage, so the holder takes no poison damage on that first turn.'
p153
sS'Dread Plate'
p154
S"A hold item that increases the Base Power of all Dark-type moves by 20%. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Dark."
p155
sS'Bug Gem'
p156
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Bug-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p157
sS'Ground Gem'
p158
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Ground-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p159
sS'Durin Berry'
p160
S'This is a Berry that was used in the older generation games, but it now has no use.'
p161
sS'Miracle Seed'
p162
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Grass-type attacks by 20%."
p163
sS'Smooth Rock'
p164
S'Any Pokemon that uses Sandstorm while holding a Smooth Rock will have its duration boosted to eight turns instead of the regular five.'
p165
sS'Absorb Bulb'
p166
S"The Absorb Bulb boosts the holder's Special Attack by +1 when it is hit by a Water-type move, and is consumed upon use. Does not grant immunity to Water-type moves. If held by a Pokemon with Water Absorb, Storm Drain, or Dry Skin, the ability will activate first if a Water-type move is used, so the Absorb Bulb's effect will not activate, unless the holder's ability is changed."
p167
sS'Colbur Berry'
p168
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Dark-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Dark-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p169
sS'Douse Drive'
p170
S'This ability causes the move Techno Blast to become Water-type. It does not change it in any other way, however, and has no effect on a Pokemon without this move.'
p171
sS'Wiki Berry'
p172
S'Restores the HP of the holder by 1/8 of its maximum HP when at 50% HP or less. Consumed after use. If the holder has an Adamant, Careful, Impish, or Jolly nature, it will also confuse the holder upon activation. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Rock-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p173
sS'Armor Fossil'
p174
S'The Armor Fossil can be revived at the Nacrene Museum to make a Level 20 Shieldon.'
p175
sS'Wacan Berry'
p176
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Electric-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Electric-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p177
sS'Plume Fossil'
p178
S'The Plume Fossil can be revived at the Nacrene Museum to make a Level 20 Archen.'
p179
sS'Iron Plate'
p180
S"A hold item that increases the Base Power of all Steel-type moves by 20%. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Steel."
p181
sS'Water Gem'
p182
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Water-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p183
sS'Black Sludge'
p184
S'If held by a Poison-type, the holder recovers 6.25% of their maximum HP at the end of each turn, rounded down. This healing occurs after damage from sandstorm or hail, but before damage from poison, burn, Nightmare, or Leech Seed. If held by a Pokemon that is not a Poison-type, the holder is damaged by 12.5% of their maximum HP at the end of each turn, rounded down. This damage occurs after damage from sandstorm or hail, but before damage from poison, burn, Nightmare, or Leech Seed. A Pokemon with Magic Guard will not be damaged by Black Sludge.'
p185
sS'Hard Stone'
p186
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Rock-type attacks by 20%."
p187
sS'Macho Brace'
p188
S"Reduces the holder's Speed by 50%. In-game, this item doubles the EVs gained by the holder from any battle."
p189
sS'Rawst Berry'
p190
S'Cures burn. One-time use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Grass-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p191
sS'Mind Plate'
p192
S"A hold item that increases the Base Power of all Psychic-type moves by 20%. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Psychic."
p193
sS'Flame Orb'
p194
S'Inflicts the holder with the burn status at the end of the first turn in which the holder was sent out. The burn status occurs after the holder would take burn damage, so the holder takes no burn damage on that first turn.'
p195
sS'Aguav Berry'
p196
S'Restores the HP of the holder by 1/8 of its maximum HP when at 50% HP or less. Consumed after use. If the holder has a Lax, Naive, Naughty, or Rash nature, it will also confuse the holder upon activation. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Dragon-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p197
sS'Normal Gem'
p198
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Normal-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p199
sS'Metal Powder'
p200
S"Raises Ditto's Defense and Special Defense by 50%. If Ditto transforms into another Pokemon, the boosts are lost."
p201
sS'Full Incense'
p202
S'Forces holder to move last in any given turn. If Snorlax breeds while holding Full Incense, a Munchlax Egg will be produced as opposed to a Snorlax Egg.'
p203
sS'Stick'
p204
S"If held by Farfetch'd, this item raises the critical hit ratio of the holder by two stages. No effect if held by any other Pokemon."
p205
sS'Scope Lens'
p206
S'Raises critical hit ratio of the holder by one stage.'
p207
sS'DeepSeaTooth'
p208
S'If held by Clamperl, its Special Attack stat is doubled in battle. If Clamperl is traded while holding this item, it will evolve into Huntail.'
p209
sS'Grass Gem'
p210
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Grass-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p211
sS'Cover Fossil'
p212
S'The Cover Fossil can be revived at the Nacrene Museum to make a Level 20 Tirtouga.'
p213
sS"King's Rock"
p214
S'If Poliwhirl is traded while holding this item, it will evolve into Politoed. If Slowpoke is traded while holding this item, it will evolve into Slowking. All moves that actively deal damage and do not already have a chance to flinch will gain a 10% chance of flinching the opponent. (This chance doubles to 20% if the holder has Serene Grace.) This effect does not stack with Stench, and is not affected by Sheer Force.'
p215
sS'Soft Sand'
p216
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Ground-type attacks by 20%."
p217
sS'Quick Claw'
p218
S"This item gives the holder a 20% chance to move first in that turn. For example, if the holder were to use Spikes and the opponent to use Taunt, then if the item were to activate, Spikes would go before Taunt irrespective of the combatants' Speed stats. However, if the opponent were to use Bullet Punch or another elevated priority attack, then Bullet Punch would go first. Similarly, a Pokemon with Prankster will move before a Pokemon using Custap Berry when using a non-attacking move. Quick Claw's activation ignores the effects of Trick Room."
p219
sS'Spell Tag'
p220
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Ghost-type attacks by 20%."
p221
sS'Binding Band'
p222
S"The damage dealt at the end of the turn by multi-turn trapping moves (Bind, Clamp, Fire Spin, Magma Storm, Sand Tomb, Whirlpool, Wrap) is increased from 6.25% to 12.5% of the target's maximum HP."
p223
sS'Soul Dew'
p224
S"If held by Latias or Latios, raises the holder's Special Attack and Special Defense stats by 50%. No effect if the holder is neither of these Pokemon."
p225
sS'EnergyPowder'
p226
S"Restores 50 HP to one Pokemon, but reduces that Pokemon's happiness level by 5 points. One-time use."
p227
sS'Ghost Gem'
p228
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Ghost-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p229
sS'Starf Berry'
p230
S"If the holder's HP hits or falls below 25%, this Berry will raise one of the holder's stats at random by two stages. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes an 80 Base Power Psychic-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use."
p231
sS'Icy Rock'
p232
S'Any Pokemon that uses Hail while holding an Icy Rock will have its duration boosted to eight turns instead of the regular five.'
p233
sS'Eject Button'
p234
S"A one-time use item that forces the holder to switch out immediately when hit by a damaging attack, even if they have not moved yet in that turn. This item bypasses trapping moves, such as Block or Wrap, Ingrain, and Suction Cups. The holder's controller is allowed to select the Pokemon sent out next. If a Pokemon with Sheer Force attacks a Pokemon holding Eject Button with a move that gains a boost from Sheer Force, then the effect of Eject Button is negated."
p235
sS'Big Root'
p236
S'When held by a Pokemon, increases the HP recovered by the holder by using a draining move by 30%. The damaging moves affected by this item are Absorb, Drain Punch, Dream Eater, Giga Drain, Horn Leech, Leech Life, and Mega Drain. Leech Seed will also recover more HP, but will not deal any extra damage to the opponent. Despite not being draining moves, the HP gain from Ingrain and Aqua Ring is also boosted, so each of them will heal 8.125% HP per turn as opposed to 6.25%.'
p237
sS'Micle Berry'
p238
S"If the holder's HP reaches or falls below 25%, then the next move has its accuracy increased by 20%. This Berry has no effect on Guillotine, Sheer Cold, Fissure, or Horn Drill. Consumed after use."
p239
sS'Fist Plate'
p240
S"A hold item that increases the Base Power of all Fighting-type moves by 20%. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Fighting."
p241
sS'TwistedSpoon'
p242
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Psychic-type attacks by 20%."
p243
sS'Apicot Berry'
p244
S"The Apicot Berry raises the user's Special Defense by 1 stage once the user is brought down to 1/4 or lower of its HP. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes an 80 Base Power Ground-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use."
p245
sS'Lansat Berry'
p246
S'If the holder has 25% HP or less, then it will consume the Lansat Berry, and the effect of Focus Energy takes place (critical hit ratio raised by two stages). This does not occur if Focus Energy is already in effect for the user. Natural Gift becomes an 80 Base Power Flying-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p247
sS'Chill Drive'
p248
S'This item causes the move Techno Blast to become Ice-type. It does not change it in any other way, however, and has no effect on a Pokemon without this move.'
p249
sS'Heat Rock'
p250
S'Any Pokemon that uses Sunny Day while holding a Heat Rock will have its duration boosted to eight turns instead of the regular five.'
p251
sS'Electric Gem'
p252
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Electric-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p253
sS'Toxic Plate'
p254
S"A hold item that increases the Base Power of all Poison-type moves by 20%. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Poison."
p255
sS'Haban Berry'
p256
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Dragon-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Dragon-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p257
sS'Charti Berry'
p258
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Rock-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Rock-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p259
sS'Root Fossil'
p260
S'The Root Fossil can be revived at the Nacrene Museum to make a Level 20 Lileep.'
p261
sS'Pecha Berry'
p262
S'This item is not seen in any tier because Lum Berry can cure any status ailment, while Pecha Berry can only cure one.'
p263
sS'Mago Berry'
p264
S'Restores the HP of the holder by 1/8 of its maximum HP when at 50% HP or less. Consumed after use. If the holder has a Brave, Quiet, Relaxed, or Sassy nature, it will also confuse the holder upon activation. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Ghost-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p265
sS'Draco Plate'
p266
S"A hold item that increases the base power of all Dragon-type moves by 20% with the exception of Dragon Rage. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Dragon."
p267
sS'Dark Gem'
p268
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Dark-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p269
sS'Shed Shell'
p270
S'Allows the holder to bypass all trapping effects, namely Ingrain, Arena Trap, Magnet Pull, Shadow Tag, Block, Mean Look, Spider Web, Bind, Clamp, Fire Spin, Magma Storm, Sand Tomb, Whirlpool, or Wrap. Pokemon that have used Ingrain or have the ability Suction Cups are still not affected by Roar and Whirlwind. A Pokemon locked into Ice Ball, Outrage, Petal Dance, Rollout, Thrash, or Uproar will still not be able to switch out.'
p271
sS'Earth Plate'
p272
S"A hold item that increases the Base Power of all Ground-type moves by 20%. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Ground."
p273
sS'Light Clay'
p274
S'If the holder uses either Light Screen or Reflect, the two moves will stay on the field for eight turns instead of five.'
p275
sS'Salac Berry'
p276
S"If the holder's HP hits or falls below 25%, this Berry will raise the holder's Speed by one stage. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes an 80 Base Power Fighting-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use."
p277
sS'Muscle Band'
p278
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing physical attacks by 10%."
p279
sS'Lucky Punch'
p280
S"Raises Chansey's critical hit ratio by two stages."
p281
sS'Metronome'
p282
S'Increases the power of moves used consecutively by 20% each time it is used, up to a maximum of 5 turns (100%). If the holder switches out or uses another move, the boosts are lost. Metronome will not power up individual hits of multi-hit moves (such as Rock Blast) unless they are used consecutively.'
p283
sS'Choice Scarf'
p284
S'The user gains a 50% increase to Speed, but can only use the first move selected until it switches out or has its Choice Scarf removed. This boost does not count as a stat change. If this item is replaced with another Choice item, such as by Trick or Switcheroo, then the user will not be locked into their original choice. If the holder is locked into a non-attacking move and is Taunted, they will use Struggle. If the holder is runs out of PP for the attack they are locked into, they will use Struggle, but if the PP for that move is restored by an Elixir or Leppa Berry, they can select a new attack. If a Pokemon obtains a Choice item after using an attack, they will be locked into that attack. If Magic Room is used while a Choice-locked Pokemon is on the field, then the Pokemon can switch attacks, but once Magic Room ceases to take effect, they are again locked on the move they were originally locked in on before Magic Room was used.'
p285
sS'Razor Claw'
p286
S'Raises critical hit ratio of the holder by one stage. If Sneasel is leveled up during the night while holding this item, it will evolve into Weavile.'
p287
sS'Poison Barb'
p288
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Poison-type attacks by 20%."
p289
sS'Flame Plate'
p290
S"A hold item that increases the Base Power of all Fire-type moves by 20%. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Fire."
p291
sS'Insect Plate'
p292
S"A hold item that increases the Base Power of all Bug-type moves by 20%. When held by a Pokemon with the Multitype ability, the holder's type will change to Bug."
p293
sS'Odd Incense'
p294
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Psychic-type attacks by 20%. If Mr. Mime breeds while holding Odd Incense, a Mime Jr. Egg will be produced as opposed to a Mr. Mime Egg."
p295
sS'Aspear Berry'
p296
S'If held by a Pokemon, will automatically cure the freeze status condition when inflicted on the holder. Consumed after use. Can also be used forcibly by the trainer in-game. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Ice-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p297
sS'Figy Berry'
p298
S'Restores the HP of the holder by 1/8 of its maximum HP when at 50% HP or less. Consumed after use. If the holder has a Bold, Calm, Modest, or Timid nature, it will also confuse the holder upon activation. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Bug-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p299
sS'Cell Battery'
p300
S"Raises the holder's Attack stat by one stage when it is hit by an Electric-type move. The item is consumed after use. It does not grant immunity to Electric-type moves. If held by a Pokemon with Volt Absorb or Lightningrod, the ability will activate first if an Electric-type move is used, so the item's effect will not activate, unless the holder's ability is changed."
p301
sS'Eviolite'
p302
S"This item, when attached to a Pok\xc3\xa9mon that is capable of evolving, will boost the Pok\xc3\xa9mon's Defense and Special Defense by 50%. Has no effect on Phione or any other Pokemon that is not capable of evolving."
p303
sS'Light Ball'
p304
S"Doubles Pikachu's Attack and Special Attack stats in battle. If Pikachu or Raichu breeds while holding Light Ball, the Pichu that hatches will know the move Volt Tackle."
p305
sS'White Herb'
p306
S'Removes any negative stat changes to the holder. Consumed after use.'
p307
sS'Sticky Barb'
p308
S'The holder takes damage equal to 12.5% of its max HP at the end of each turn. If the opponent uses a contact move on the holder, they will take damage equal to 12.5% of their max HP, and if they are not holding an item, they will obtain Sticky Barb as their held item. Does not affect a Pokemon with Magic Guard.'
p309
sS'Iron Ball'
p310
S"Cuts the holder's Speed by 50% and negates all the holder's immunities to Ground-type moves, including Levitate and the Flying-type. Rotom-S is not an exception. The holder is also made susceptible to Arena Trap, Spikes, and Toxic Spikes. A Flying-type Pok\xc3\xa9mon holding an Iron Ball will receive neutral damage from Ground-type moves regardless of its secondary type."
p311
sS'Dragon Fang'
p312
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Dragon-type attacks by 20%."
p313
sS'Focus Sash'
p314
S'If the holder has max HP, Focus Sash guarantees it survives any attack with 1 HP. The item is consumed after use. If the holder is not at full health, the item will not activate. If the holder takes damage, but does not activate Focus Sash, and then recovers off this damage to return to 100% HP, Focus Sash can still activate. Focus Sash will allow the holder to survive the first hit of a multi-hit move like Fury Attack, but it will be KOed on the second. Focus Sash prevents the holder from OHKOing itself with confusion damage. Will activate if the holder would be KOed by Final Gambit, but does not protect against Doom Desire, Future Sight, or Destiny Bond. Does not protect the holder from OHKOing itself with recoil damage. Focus Sash will activate before Knock Off, so if Knock Off would KO in one hit, then Focus Sash will activate first and prevent the KO. A Pokemon with Sturdy will have its ability activate before Focus Sash, so Focus Sash has no effect on a Pokemon with Sturdy unless facing an opponent with Mold Breaker.'
p315
sS'Shock Drive'
p316
S'This item causes the move Techno Blast to become Electric-type. It does not change it in any other way, however, and has no effect on a Pokemon without this move.'
p317
sS'Silk Scarf'
p318
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Normal-type attacks by 20%."
p319
sS'Expert Belt'
p320
S'When this item is held, if the holder uses an attack on the opponent that is super effective, its power is increased by 20%.'
p321
sS'Lagging Tail'
p322
S'Makes the holder move last in their priority bracket. The holder will still move last in their priority bracket even under the effects of Trick Room.'
p323
sS'Sharp Beak'
p324
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Flying-type attacks by 20%."
p325
sS'Focus Band'
p326
S'There is a 10% chance that when the holder is hit by an attack that would otherwise cause fainting, it will survive with 1 HP. Can also protect against recoil damage, multi-hit moves, and self-inflicted confusion damage, but not from Future Sight or Doom Desire or from self-induced fainting due to Selfdestruct, Explosion, Memento, Lunar Dance, or Healing Wish. It will not protect against passive damage such as sandstorm or poison.'
p327
sS'Dome Fossil'
p328
S'The Dome Fossil can be revived at the Nacrene Museum to make a Level 20 Kabuto.'
p329
sS'Persim Berry'
p330
S'If held by a Pokemon, will automatically cure the confusion status condition when inflicted on the holder. Consumed after use. Can also be used forcibly by the trainer in-game. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Ground-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p331
sS'Poison Gem'
p332
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Poison-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p333
sS'Yache Berry'
p334
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Ice-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. If the holder uses the move Natural Gift, this Berry will provide a one-time 60 Base Power Ice-type attack.'
p335
sS'Chilan Berry'
p336
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Normal-type move used against the holder by 50%. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Normal-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p337
sS'Thick Club'
p338
S"If held by Cubone or Marowak, this item doubles the holder's Attack stat. No effect if held by any other Pokemon."
p339
sS'Adamant Orb'
p340
S'When held by Dialga, the Adamant Orb multiplies the power of all damage-dealing Dragon- and Steel-type moves used by the holder by 4915/4096 (approximately 1.2). Can be held by other Pokemon, but then has no effect.'
p341
sS'Kebia Berry'
p342
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Poison-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. If the holder uses the move Natural Gift, this Berry will provide a one-time 60 Base Power Poison-type attack.'
p343
sS'Dragon Gem'
p344
S'If the holder uses a damage-dealing Dragon-type move, then the holder consumes this item and the power of that move is increased by 50%. One-time use.'
p345
sS'Rare Bone'
p346
S'Can be sold for 5,000 Pok\xc3\xa9 Dollars. No other use.'
p347
sS'Wise Glasses'
p348
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing special attacks by 10%."
p349
sS'Wave Incense'
p350
S"Increases the power of all of the holder's damage-dealing Water-type attacks by 20%. If Mantine breeds while holding Wave Incense, a Mantyke Egg will be produced as opposed to a Mantine Egg."
p351
sS'Coba Berry'
p352
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Flying-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Flying-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p353
sS'Lustrous Orb'
p354
S"Raises the power of Palkia's Dragon- and Water-type moves by 4915/4096 (approximately 1.2)."
p355
sS'Payapa Berry'
p356
S'When held by a Pokemon, reduces the power of a damaging Psychic-type move that would hit the holder for super effective damage by 50%. Consumed after use. Natural Gift becomes a 60 Base Power Psychic-type attack when the user holds this Berry, but the Berry is consumed after use.'
p357
s.